# Share Moor
A simple event based file sharing application meant for event file sharing.
# About
A cross-platform, browser-based, self-hosted, account-less, and privacy centered media sharing tool. Made using Java and the Spring framework. Uses a variety of open source tools that scrub personally identifiable information from the files shared.
# Platforms
Tool is CrossPlatform and has been tested and ran on:
* Windows 10
* MacOS Mojave
* Arch Linux


Other platforms of distros may or may not work at this point. 
Your miles may vary.
# Dependencies
Java JDK 14 or greater.
https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase-downloads.html
or see your your distribution for the appropriate JDK or JRE.


# Setup
Upon downloading the project, the only required files for operation are as follows:
1. Assets directory
    * ExifTool.zip
    * config_default.yaml
2. Jar direcotory
    * ShareMoor-spring-server.jar
    * ShareMoor-config-uber-jar.jar
# How to use (Suggested)
Execute Jar executable: 
> /ShareMoor/jar-dir/ShareMoor-config-uber-jar.jar

Note: A system shortcut can be setup. No setup or starting script avaiable at this time.
# How to use (Advanced)
To use project, it can be run in a GUI front end mode, or a headless server mode. 
Both modes of operation work independantly of eachother but may
require configuration files to be in place to operate correctly.
## Config Front End
> java -jar ShareMoor-config-uber-jar.jar

### Note
Front end program may not require Java JDK 14 or greater, but the Spring Server is builtaround it and will require it to operate. 
CLI interaction, java is required to be a system environment variable.

## Spring Server
>  java -jar ShareMoor-spring-server.jar

This jar file will start up the web server on its own as a service. It can be ran in a verbose mode by executing it within a terminal environment

### Note
While the Config Front End does not require much to get started as all required config files will be generated upon start
The Sping Server will require the "config.yaml" and "application.yaml" to exist within the project parent directory, a level above '/jar-dir/'.

#### Assets 
Directory contains usable assets that are generated by each program, or the Exiftool which is leveraged for the programs metadata scrubbing.
If these do not exist, please read the notes below within the Exiftool deploy notes.

# Exiftool deploy notes
To deploy, please install the following dependies in their respective locations:

Current uses of Exiftool 12.06 and are delivered contained with a zip file. 
SpringBoot_Server application upon upload will varify the existance of exiftool, and will unpack zip according.
If zip file is missing, please download from the respective website and place as directed below.
 
Exiftool:
https://exiftool.org/

Unpack Image-ExifTool.zip which will contain all required dependies and modifications.
Linux and MacOS Executable:
> assets-dir/Image-Exiftool-12.06/

Note: Program downloaded from exiftool.org contains slight variations and may require changes.
Change to reflect the directory to be as shown above. 
Also adjust the executable perl file /Image-Exiftool/exiftool to exiftool.pl

Windows Executable:
> assets-dir/exiftool.exe

Note: Windows zip contains originally from source "exiftool(-k).exe", adjust naming to "exiftool.exe".

# Using Share Moor
Once in graphical operation given the front end tool, a configuration will have to be set up and saved prior to server operation.

Some assets, such as QR codes and directories will be generated as required.

Noteable Things:

**Upload-dir:** Landing place for files as they are uploaded. Do not edit or modify anything contained within.

**ProcessedFull-dir:** Contains all files which have been collected and processed. 

**Denied-dir:** A feature that has allows for a user to approve or deny photos. This is were the denied files go. This feature is not fully implemented at this time.

**contact_info.csv:** A file that contains contact info, in the form of emails from users who want to have access the the files at a later point.

**config.yaml:** Program configuration file. Is vital for functionality and operation of server. Generated from configuration tool.

**application.yaml:** Program configuration file. Is vital for functionality and operation of server. Generated from configuration tool.

## Source Directories
Frontend Configuration Tool: **GUI**

Spring Boot Server: **SpringBoot_Server** 

Not required for operation of program, but is provided for ease of configuration and testing.
Targeted jar's generated from source's maven profiles are required to be in place at '/jar-dir/' for program operation outside of an IDE environment.

More documenation to come.
